Rules for delimited base64 file format:

1. A file consists only of zero or more records separated by record
delimiters.

2. A record consists only of one or more fields separated by field
delimiters.

3. A field consists only of base64 encoded data, strictly following the
recommendations of RFC 4648.

4. A field contains only one base64 encoding.

5. A record ending with a field delimiter contains an empty field after
the final field delimiter.

6. There are two types of records permitted in a file: header records
and data records.

7. A file contains zero or more data records.

8. A data field delimiter (",") separates adjacent fields within a data
record.

9. A data record delimiter (".") separates adjacent data records.

10. A file starting with a data record delimiter contains a data record
consisting of one empty field before the initial data record delimiter.

11. A file ending with a data record delimiter contains a data record
consisting of one empty field after the final data record delimiter.

12. A file contains zero or one header record.

13. The header record (if present) must be the first record in a file.

14. A header field delimiter (";") separates adjacent fields within a
header record.

15. A header record delimiter (":") separates the header record from
subsequent data records.

16. A file starting with a header record delimiter contains a header
record consisting of one empty field.

17. A header record must be followed by a header record delimiter.  A
file ending with the header record delimiter contains no data records.

18. All records (header and data records) in the file must consist of
the same number of fields.


Implementation requirements:

That which is not explicitly allowed is denied.  A compliant writer of
delimited base64 files must produce files that fully conform to this
specification.  A compliant reader of delimited base64 files must reject
files not fully conforming to this specification.


Characteristics of delimited base64 files:

A file consists only of bytes belonging to the set of 65 base64 encoding
characters plus the characters ",", ".", ";", and ":".

A zero byte file is a valid file consisting of zero data records
containing an unspecified number of fields.

Base64 padding characters ("=") only appear at the end of a field.

The number of field delimiters in a file is r * (f - 1) where r is the
number of records and f is the number of fields per record.

The number of header record delimiters in a file is one if a header is
present or zero if no header is present.

The number of data record delimiters in a file containing one or more
data records is r - 1 where r is the number of records in the file.

A file containing zero data records (an empty file or a file containing
only a header record) has no data record delimiters.

A file containing one data record has no data record delimiters.  It
must have at least one field delimiter or non-empty field.  Otherwise it
would be interpreted as a file with zero data records.  A file cannot
contain just one data record with a single empty field.


Valid test vectors:

"": The empty file contains no records.

",": The file consists of one data record consisting of two fields
containing no data.

".": The file consists of two data records consisting of one field
containing no data.

":": The file consists of one header record consisting of one field
containing no data.

",,": The file consists of one data record consisting of three fields
containing no data.

";:": The file consists of one header record consisting of two fields
containing no data.

"..": The file consists of three data records consisting of one field
containing no data.

":.": The file consists of one header record consisting of one field
containing no data and two data records consisting of one field
containing no data.

"d2VhcG9u;cHJvamVjdGlsZQ==;dGFyZ2V0:cGlzdG9s,YnVsbGV0,dG9hc3Rlcg==": The
file consists of one header record and one data record.  Each record has
three fields.

"Vm0wd2QyUXlVWGxW": The file consists of one data record consisting of
one field.

"Ym1WemRHVmssWm1sc1pRPT0=": The file consists of one data record
consisting of one field.  The field contains a delimited base64 file.


Invalid test vectors:

";": The header record must be followed by a header record delimiter
(rule 17).

":,": The records do not consist of the same number of fields (rule 18).

".,": The records do not consist of the same number of fields (rule 18).

",.": The records do not consist of the same number of fields (rule 18).

"::": A file may not contain more than one header record (rule 12).

".;": A data record may not precede a header record (rule 13).

".:": A data record may not precede a header record (rule 13).

";,": The header record must be followed by a header record delimiter
(rule 17).

";.": The header record must be followed by a header record delimiter
(rule 17).

";;": The header record must be followed by a header record delimiter
(rule 17).

":;": A file may not contain more than one header record (rule 12).

"::": A file may not contain more than one header record (rule 12).

";:,,": The records do not consist of the same number of fields (rule
18).

" ": A file may not contain "whitespace" characters or any other
characters not permitted in a record (rule 1).

":YWFh,YmJi": The records do not consist of the same number of fields
(rule 18).

"TEFOR1NFQw": The field is not padded in accordance with RFC 4648 (rule
3).

"MQ==Mg==": The field contains more than one base64 encoding (rule 4).
